Add changelog & release docs (#10)
hypothesis/frontend-shared: docs/releases.md

# Release process

The release process in broken up into 3 steps.

1. Increment the version and add a new tag
2. Modify the changelog
3. Merge the release branch and create a "github release"

## 1. Increment the version and add a new tag

To update the version in package.json and create a tag run:

```shell
$ yarn version
```

The version number should be updated following [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200). The only change should be to package.json, and there should be a new tag on the commit prefixed with a "v".

## 2. Modify the changelog

`CHANGELOG.md` highlights changes that are relevant for consumers of the package. Our changelog follows [keepachangelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).

### Steps to append to the changelog

Immediately after a version commit & tag, run the following command to create a draft list of changes relating to the new version.

```shell
$ gulp changelog
```

> This command will generate a partial changelog and output it to the console. Copy the text and paste it above the previous version in `CHANGELOG.md` and be sure to leave a blank line between versions. The output is git logs between the current new version and the previous released version. It will be important to edit and trim down that list so only the user facing changes are clear, concise and obvious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will generate a partial changelog and output it to the console. Copy the text and paste it above the previous version in `CHANGELOG.md` and be sure to leave a blank line between versions. The output is git logs between the current new version and the previous released version. It will be important to edit and trim down that list so that only the consumer-relevant changes are included.
```

I changed the term "user" to "consumer" to make it clear that we're talking about the project consuming the package rather than the end user interacting with components from the package.

### Edit the output

1. Delete any commits that are not relevant for a consumer.
2. Categorize the remaining important commits into various [types of changes](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#how).
3. Make sure to prefix anything that might break with "BREAKING CHANGE:"
4. Refactor the messages as needed to ensure they can be understood by a consumer.

When writing the changelog, please follow the [Keep a Changelog advice](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#how).

### Save and commit

Commit the changelog file with a simple message, then push the branch (make sure to push tags too) and merge to `main` after CI passes.

> ## 3. Create a new github release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Create a new GitHub release
```

Pedantic correction.

# Release process

The release process in broken up into 3 steps.

1. Increment the version and add a new tag
2. Modify the changelog
3. Merge the release branch and create a "github release"

## 1. Increment the version and add a new tag

> Run

Reviewer: Maybe replace "Run" with what the command will do. Something like "To update the version in package.json and create a tag run:".

```shell
$ yarn version
```

> See [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200).

Reviewer: Can you revise this to make it obvious _why_ this link matters. Something like "The version number should be updated following [semantic versioning](...)". I think you can actually omit the list below on the basis that most readers will likely already know what the semver rules.

- MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes,
- MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards compatible manner, and
- PATCH version when you make backwards compatible bug fixes.

In most cases increment the MINOR version number only. The only change should be to package.json, and there should be a new tag on the commit prefixed with a "v".

## 2. Modify the changelog

> Frontend-share is a consumed package, so it is important to emphasize changes that could affect anything that imports it. For this reason, the `CHANGELOG.md` file is used to highlight such changes. `CHANGELOG.md` is based our changelog off [keepachangelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/_).

Reviewer: The "Keep a changelog" site explains why a changelog is important, so I think you can omit the first sentence here and revise the second sentence to something like "CHANGELOG.md highlights changes that are relevant for consumers of the package". The last sentence here isn't grammatical. I suggest "Our changelog follows [Keep a Changelog](...)".

### Steps to append to the changelog

Immediately after a version commit & tag, run the follow command to create a draft list of changes relating to the new version.

```shell
$ gulp changelog
```

This command will generate a partial changelog and output it to the console. Copy the text and paste it above the previous version in `CHANGELOG.md`. The output is git logs between the current new version and the previous released version. It will be important to edit and trim down that list so only the user facing changes are clear, concise and obvious.

### Edit the output

1. Delete any commits that are not relevant for a consumer.
2. Categorize the remaining important commits into various "types of changes" (defined below).
3. Make sure to prefix anything that might break with "BREAKING CHANGE:"
4. Refactor the messages as needed to ensure they can be understood by a consumer.

#### Types of changes

> - `### Added` for new features.

Reviewer: I suggest the "Types of changes" section could be replaced with a sentence that links to the "How do I make a good changelog" section of https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#how. Something along the lines of `When writing the changelog, please follow the [Keep a Changelog advice](...)`.
